# Departing “Pre-Revenue,” Discord Launches Store Beta for Games
The behavior of the architects behind software and web services is now vastly more present in the public conversation than ever, and the exponential growth of their relevance remains just two or three scandals ahead of an adjacent subject undergoing a similarly-scaled explosion: video games and their culture. Underneath an underestimated amount of the momentum behind this growth within the past three years, a free, all-in-one communication service has accrued oodles of its users’ affection and its investors’ cash. In late 2015, when all the only two things I knew about this project was that I wanted to create an online magazine called *Extratone,* my *very* first step was to set up [our Discord server](http://bit.ly/holeguest), which has continued to perform better than any alternative in providing the most elementary platform for our little, cross-continent organization every day, free of charge. The experience has prompted some confusion within myself (why *the fuck* are workplaces continuing to migrate to Slack when Discord is literally the same thing plus video, voice, and better user management?) about the disconnect I’ve perceived between my own heavy day-to-day use of Discord from what I hear about it from other users, and now its head hauncho.

On Thursday, *Recode Media* published [its interview with Discord’s CEO Jason Citron](https://www.recode.net/2018/8/9/17665350/discord-jason-citron-games-store-pc-fortnite-valve-steam-kurt-wagner-recode-media-podcast) throughout which neither he nor his guest interviewer Kurt Wagner spoke as if they’d ever actually used the service before. There are many excuses to draw from in their defense: both were out of their respective wheelhouses. Citron admits that he “went from being a game developer to learning how to be a CEO,” and Wagner notes in the playback’s first few minutes that he “wouldn’t consider [himself] a hardcore gamer by any stretch.” *Recode Media*’s meta media-obsessed target audience are of a particularly bitter, joyless species - by design or otherwise - and the balanced wit of the inevitable condescension mastered by its regular host, Peter Kafka would’ve appealed to their elite sense of superiority had he been present to turn it upon Citron’s dignity. Unfortunately, his substitute lacked the hostility to so mask his ignorance, and the resulting 3/4-hour conversation is a clashing, cringey, and embarrassing experience defined predominantly by all-pervasive confusion. Its quality as an episode in the property is completely irrelevant, but both gamers and the media-obsessed should consider themselves forewarned. The language used by the two men to describe the “transcendence” of “the diehard gamer community to the mainstream” is also an especially ironic reflection of the hiccups in that very process which I could not bear to leave unaccentuated. 






