# It’s Yours, Now
It’s time to get loud. It’s time to speed the fuck up. It’s time to *scream*. It’s time to grow **JUMBO**. It’s time to take the muzzle off, punt the whole school of minimalism in the incinerator, and burn the entire *less is more* industry down to nothing because *more is more*. It’s time to bulldoze the newsstand and drag every Creative Director off their Casper mattresses into the streets to be put on public trial for conspiracy to activate heteronormative brands and dusty-ass email chains. It’s time to kick every wellness-kicking art student the fuck out of school. It’s time to throw down for bound set of pages that’ll make your ears bleed. It’s time for *Extratone*.

**What the fuck are we** ***doing*****?** It was supposed to be the best century ever, but we fell asleep on the couch and threw ourselves into a nightmare that’s evolved nearly twenty years to become full-body sleep paralysis. Some have forgotten everything about our existence except for the overwhelming animal instinct to obsessively squirm in our beds and swallow that hot panic until we can move again, but nobody knows what’s real. Are we really moving? Are we dead? Who still remembers the difference between sleeping and waking? Does anyone have a timeframe on when we can expect any sort of certainty again?

FYI, I’m tired of partaking in the resignation of America’s serial self-abuse as a fact of life. I’m tired of guitars and sad wailing white boys who aspire only to watch *Robert’s Sandwiches* suckling their cheap marijuana out of psychophallic porcelainware. I want to be deafened by the penultimate death rattle of a circuit bent sacrificial ritual and indiscriminately punched in the throat at a First Friday show. I want to read something on printed paper that was not solely composed to manipulate my nostalgic disposition, but is instead entirely unaware of and uninterested in nostalgia’s self-pity or general existence. I am full of ambient noise, but I’m fed up with accepting that I’ll be emptied by committing to pay white burbians in polyster pajamas for their pitiful appropriation of martial arts so that they may pass down their most precious wisdom: the guaranteed Most Optimal Ergomethodology for sitting down on my ass bones. I’m overflowing with information about current events, but I can’t even recite three of the five Ws for a single happening from yesterday and thirty million of my countrymen have still been left to fend for themselves with insufficient functional literacy to understand a boil order.

**Here’s what I know**: the worthwhile publications have *not* been crucified on the Cross of “Readability,” the genre-busting song talent has *not* been given up in the face of the streaming service-afflicted music industry

