# BBL Bio

[BBL | A Creative Agency That Shifts Culture](https://bernersbowielee.com)

A short bio I pounded out for the sake of contacting this agency which I found a worthwhile variation of “the story.”

I grew up restoring tractors on a Missouri farm instead of making friends and embarked briefly upon my professional calling (car journalism) as a young adult before a personal loss compelled me to stop dead at 21, turn down the dream job offer I’d been thinking about since prepubescence, and launch my own media company dedicated to celebrating the online community of exceptionally original creative people (electronic musicians, largely) I’d found myself adjacent to. (Its about page is quoted nearly in full, below.)

After nearly five years, I learned more about digital media, listening, leadership, The Web, and myself than I could have ever imagined, but I definitely failed to accomplish a single one of my original goals.

I have spent the time since working as a freelance office administrator for small, mostly out-of-home mental health private practices and doing my best to study the history of The Web that lead us here so that I might provide some insight, going forward - perhaps as a technology writer.

Ultimately, I am compelled to seek out and celebrate *truly* innovative/original culture, which is why your organization’s self-representation intrigued me enough to spend the time writing this.

From my online magazine’s About page:

---

We strive to differentiate between relevant and irrelevant contemporary discourse, editorially, and further the newborn movement sustaining inclutterable and substantial storytelling in digital media.

Our audience and networks overlap online consistently in evermore intricate relationships. We are interested in — and most interesting to — a massive global community of musicians, artists, designers, photographers, and software developers that has remained inquantifiable except by these relationships for its ten year lifespan. In their interest, our brand was created to unify them, and our platform exists to enable them to better distribute content and ideas between their networks.

Simultaneously, we work to bring their incorruptibly innovative output to the attention of a world that is troublingly obsessed with stale platitudes, cliches, and patterns of expression.”

Thank you so much for your time.