# Chapter I
Gruel never yielded anything to a single soul, but most of the apartment’s occasional guests – when they’d pay her any mind at all – mistook her resistance for the indifference of morbid obesity, or the pervading detachment from life and reality resulting from prolonged suffering from the same. Barney had loved her in *precisely* the same cheesily-affectionate, telehonian manner with which he did in their kittenhood, uninterrupted for nearly a decade, and thought he knew better how she felt about his touch – he assumed her sudden fluid, ground-covering saunter to her room’s solitude was only an unfortunate involuntary reflex to his stocky presence, when in fact his volume failed one hundred percent of his hundreds of attempts to command any whatsoever. In the midst of female and/or unfamiliar company, he’d make a point to bend his bulbous puckering down to search for her eyes with his own, rubbing lightly together the pads of his thumb and index finger as he very deliberately extended the whole of the grubby device toward her snout, as if to point *at* her *with* the foul racket. For her ears, it was sautéed nails in a chamber pot; for her tastes, it was the sound of death.

In actuality, she had never once experienced even a wee grain of fear of the imbecile. As it happens, no living being – thinking and not – ever had or ever would, for the extent of his existence. If Gruel had been bestowed with the most boundless, ever-giving gift of complex linguistics, she wouldn’t have batted an eye before loudly protesting her sentiments about his life, his noise, and his smelly-ass hands as they approached her, sitting static in her green bowelled-out faux leather recliner, attempting to murder him with her eyes. Unfortunately, gray Tabbies are quite unlucky – or perhaps just out of all favor in the eyes of Chance.

