<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
  <channel>
    <title>Continuation of the meetings waitlist</title>
    <link>https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692</link>
    <description>In the last meetings, the group was able to debate and resolve a number of points, we long wanted to speak about. 
The last [meeting](https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2021-05-01-fediverse-interest-group-meeting/1649/23) was very productive about Capability Negotiation and the Discovery of features ‚Ä¶

However, there are some points remaining and let&#39;s list them here


## alsoKnownAs and Link Relations

Following up on https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/defining-alsoknownas/907/9
@rhiaro 
but also on the [adhoc discussion in SocialCG IRC](https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2020-12-04-socialcg-meeting/1166/2) [sorry for the mess]

---

## Capability Negotiation

If this would end in an FEP we should speak about some open points from the [2021-05-01 meeting](https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2021-05-01-fediverse-interest-group-meeting/1649/24)

---

## Structure of W3C Social CG and official site 

- guides
- site
[**Please see Look and feel**](https://rigelk.gitlab.io/activitypub.rocks/) by
@rigelk 
- wiki 
- OpenCollective
- Official fediverse account (some days ago made https://gup.pe/u/activitypub for rC3)
- fediverse.space 

@how asked ‚ÄúIs there a way to communicate to W3C that promoting decentralization and using Microsoft services are antithetical?‚Äù /me added ‚Äúand using google captcha and putting forms what a computer thinks we do and not giving the community space and getting EFF back in the boat and ‚Ä¶‚Äù 

---

**As far as I know, the 2021-02-20 meeting did not happen, correct me if I&#39;m wrong, it would be** 

## Fediverse Futures 
&gt; AFAIK the Fediverse Futures group has not been followed-up on.

---


# Making [Hashtag an extension](https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/topics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to/995/4)
as Chris noted for the first November meeting, we should talk about this
https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/topics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to/995/4

---

# Groups and Events 
had a lot of efforts and it might be good for new people to hear what the current concensus is</description>
    
    <lastBuildDate>Mon, 03 May 2021 08:36:25 +0000</lastBuildDate>
    <category>SocialCG</category>
    <atom:link href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692.rss" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml" />
      <item>
        <title>Continuation of the meetings waitlist</title>
        <dc:creator><![CDATA[aschrijver]]></dc:creator>
        <description><![CDATA[
            <h3>
<a name="capability-negotation-1" class="anchor" href="#capability-negotation-1"></a>Capability negotation</h3>
<p>In theory vocabulary extension namespaces already give a clue as to the interpretation of the semantics. In practice this is not enough, especially if you get larger applications that combine many different vocabularies. Also the ActivityStreams specification can be seen as a generic library of social networking primitives, where it is more likely that they are used with different meanings.</p>
<p>In current Fediverse in most cases it is still easy figure out what to support or not:</p>
<ul>
<li>A microblogging app can safely ignore an <code>Offer{TicketDependency}</code>
</li>
<li>And it is very unlikely that this app even receives such message</li>
</ul>
<p>In more versatile apps and more complex interoperability designs, things start to break down without good negotiation. Fictitious example (not saying that either of these has the optimal design):</p>
<ul>
<li>
<code>Offer{Document}</code> ‚Üí <code>Person</code>: Guest author requests to publish article (Blogging domain)</li>
<li>
<code>Offer{Document}</code> ‚Üí <code>Person</code>: Webshop offering a product rebate (ECommerce domain)</li>
</ul>
<p>Here a Compliance Profile, even if it were just a simple string property in NodeInfo and an accompanying FEP describing what it entails, would already be of great help.</p>
<h3>
<a name="fedi-foundation-site-2" class="anchor" href="#fedi-foundation-site-2"></a>Fedi foundation site</h3>
<p>Great feedback. I did not give much attention to accessibility yet, but that needs to be addressed. I also got feedback from a fellow member with ADHD at Humane Tech Community that many sites with their bright colors are completely overwhelming to Neurodiverse people.</p>
          <p><a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/4">Read full topic</a></p>
        ]]></description>
        <link>https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/4</link>
        <pubDate>Mon, 03 May 2021 08:17:05 +0000</pubDate>
        <guid isPermaLink="false">socialhub.activitypub.rocks-post-1692-4</guid>
        <source url="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692.rss">Continuation of the meetings waitlist</source>
      </item>
      <item>
        <title>Continuation of the meetings waitlist</title>
        <dc:creator><![CDATA[Sebastian]]></dc:creator>
        <description><![CDATA[
            <p>I see. The above waitlist is only what people at last and elder meetings requested.<br>
There is also no particular order.<br>
But maybe it would just good to invite people at the meeting to Lemmy and give an overview.</p>
<aside class="quote no-group" data-username="aschrijver" data-post="2" data-topic="1692">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img alt="" width="20" height="20" src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/user_avatar/socialhub.activitypub.rocks/aschrijver/40/278_2.png" class="avatar"> aschrijver:</div>
<blockquote>
<p>Spec conformance is meaningless if it does not take the semantics into account. Your <code>as:Offer</code> may be something else</p>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>Well, it is a wiki and sure, we did not get done with it and it needs a follow up but the meeting was 20 minutes overtime and then the server somehow had a break anyway.</p>
<p>About semantics: So much is <em>in the protocol</em> - so we need to cover the semantics for the Capability, right?<br>
For now it takes semantics into account in the sense of the protocol answering the question<br>
‚ÄúWhich <code>Actor</code> can do which <code>Action</code> for which <code>Object</code> <code>type</code>‚Äù ‚Ä¶</p>
<p>Now, about <code>Offer</code> the spec. says<br>
‚Äú Indicates that the <code>actor</code> is offering the <code>object</code> . If specified, the <code>target</code> indicates the entity to which the <code>object</code> is being offered.‚Äù<br>
So it answers ‚ÄúWho offers what to which?‚Äù</p>
<p>Per spec. we can add these semantic meanings<br>
Extending <strong>Who</strong> by <code>attributedTo</code> (authors, contributors) or <code>generator</code> (underlying software)<br>
<strong>Where</strong><br>
<code>location</code><br>
<strong>When</strong><br>
<code>published, updated</code> - and - <code>startTime, endTime, duration </code><br>
<strong>How</strong><br>
<code>instrument</code><br>
<strong>within the context</strong><br>
<code>context</code><br>
<strong>resulting in</strong><br>
<code>result</code><br>
and attach <code>attachment</code></p>
<p>that is much to describe your <code>Offer</code> but my application wants to know first:<br>
‚ÄúDo you accept a capability to‚Äù <code>Offer</code> this typeof <code>Object</code> by this my <code>Actor</code>  to your <code>Actor</code> ‚Ä¶</p>
<hr>
<p>The page design looks supernice !!!<br>
I have one very minimal suggestion, give the byline points ‚ÄúCommunity empowerment ‚Ä¢ Cooperation‚Äù some more space between the text and bullet. And what would be supersick: If the bullets would have the shape of the F/E/D/I ‚Äúboxes‚Äù <img src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/images/emoji/twitter/slight_smile.png?v=9" title=":slight_smile:" class="emoji" alt=":slight_smile:"></p>
<p>And then, one thing to share: Personally, I like pink on black very much but want to share 1 feedback about the AP Conf website, which comes from an open autistic person <a href="https://twitter.com/theRosenblatts/status/1300129100791721984">saying here that it is bad and so the person used the alternating theme</a><br>
This is not criticism, let‚Äôs just all care about accessibility.</p>
          <p><a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/3">Read full topic</a></p>
        ]]></description>
        <link>https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/3</link>
        <pubDate>Mon, 03 May 2021 05:56:25 +0000</pubDate>
        <guid isPermaLink="false">socialhub.activitypub.rocks-post-1692-3</guid>
        <source url="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692.rss">Continuation of the meetings waitlist</source>
      </item>
      <item>
        <title>Continuation of the meetings waitlist</title>
        <dc:creator><![CDATA[aschrijver]]></dc:creator>
        <description><![CDATA[
            <aside class="quote group-redaktor.me" data-username="Sebastian" data-post="1" data-topic="1692">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img alt="" width="20" height="20" src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/user_avatar/socialhub.activitypub.rocks/sebastian/40/38_2.png" class="avatar"> Sebastian:</div>
<blockquote>
<h3>Fediverse Futures</h3>
<p>AFAIK the Fediverse Futures group has not been followed-up on.</p>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>I have followed-up on the earlier mention of the <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/fediverse-futures-implementer-usergroup/671/1">Fediverse Futures implementers group</a> in my introductory topic on <a class="hashtag" href="/c/fediversity/fediverse-futures/58">#<span>fediversity:fediverse-futures:</span></a> <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/fediverse-futures-visions-dreams-feedback-wanted/1238" class="inline-onebox">Fediverse Futures: Visions &amp; dreams. Feedback wanted</a>.</p>
<p>It did not get a lot of response, and no group was formed, but I‚Äôve been steadfastly adding content, and inviting people (technologists and otherwise) with broader background to the SocialHub as described in <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/about-the-fediverse-futures-category/1320" class="inline-onebox">About the Fediverse Futures category</a> with <em>‚ÄúWe need a more holistic approach to fedi development and evolution.‚Äù</em>. I‚Äôve also created a non-technical companion brainstorming space (dogfooding fedi apps): <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/fediverse-futures-is-now-on-lemmy/1557" class="inline-onebox">Fediverse Futures is now on Lemmy üòÉ</a></p>
<p>Though a dedicated group would be nice, it is not especially needed atm, especially since there‚Äôs so much other community work that needs attention. It can always be created at a later date.</p>
<h3>
<a name="capability-negotation-1" class="anchor" href="#capability-negotation-1"></a>Capability Negotation</h3>
<p>I thought I wrote some feedback on this, but can‚Äôt find it now‚Ä¶</p>
<p>Spec conformance is meaningless if it does not take the semantics into account. Your <code>as:Offer</code> may be something else entirely than my <code>as:Offer</code>. Therefore I think <a class="mention" href="/u/grishka">@grishka</a>‚Äôs Compliance Profiles would be essential to interpret that context. Didn‚Äôt see that in the meeting notes, so that may be discussed in a follow-up meeting, or a forum topic?</p>
<aside class="quote group-redaktor.me" data-username="Sebastian" data-post="1" data-topic="1692">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img alt="" width="20" height="20" src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/user_avatar/socialhub.activitypub.rocks/sebastian/40/38_2.png" class="avatar"> Sebastian:</div>
<blockquote>
<h3>Structure of W3C Social CG and official site</h3>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>In addition to points mentioned I‚Äôve been focusing on <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/organizing-for-socialhub-community-empowerment/1529" class="inline-onebox">Organizing for SocialHub Community Empowerment</a> to address the tons of community work that‚Äôs not done, and where people lack the time or incentives to do them</p>
<p>Am preparing a PoC website to accompany this, which‚Äôll be at <code>fedi.foundation</code> with code at (not yet available):</p>
<aside class="onebox allowlistedgeneric">
  <header class="source">
      <img src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/original/2X/6/6f6391726cd29894ec1a143418b42df851815c8a.svg" class="site-icon" width="100" height="58">
      <a href="https://codeberg.org/fediverse/fedi-foundation" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Codeberg.org</a>
  </header>
  <article class="onebox-body">
    <img src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/original/2X/8/8824f8db95e987fea9c383cf5710231c1a15ba72.png" class="thumbnail onebox-avatar" width="290" height="290">

<h3><a href="https://codeberg.org/fediverse/fedi-foundation" target="_blank" rel="noopener">fedi-foundation</a></h3>

<p>SocialHub: Community empowerment ‚Ä¢ Cooperation ‚Ä¢ Healthy growth ‚Ä¢ Advocacy</p>


  </article>
  <div class="onebox-metadata">
    
    
  </div>
  <div style="clear: both"></div>
</aside>

<p>Will follow-up on the empowerment topic in due time. If there‚Äôs no interest for this I‚Äôll repurpose the site, or turn it into a personal initiative. Here‚Äôs a preliminary screenshot:</p>
<p><div class="lightbox-wrapper"><a class="lightbox" href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/original/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e.jpeg" data-download-href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e" title="Fedi Foundation Draft Screenshot"><img src="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/optimized/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e_2_580x500.jpeg" alt="Fedi Foundation Draft Screenshot" data-base62-sha1="c7R7TrSnWvx2iOk6nyw0itxqadw" width="580" height="500" srcset="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/optimized/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e_2_580x500.jpeg, https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/optimized/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e_2_870x750.jpeg 1.5x, https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/optimized/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e_2_1160x1000.jpeg 2x" data-small-upload="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/uploads/default/optimized/1X/54fd73e13eb1ede9724b7397a7e87fa6f2908d8e_2_10x10.png"><div class="meta">
<svg class="fa d-icon d-icon-far-image svg-icon" aria-hidden="true"><use xlink:href="#far-image"></use></svg><span class="filename">Fedi Foundation Draft Screenshot</span><span class="informations">1362√ó1174 182 KB</span><svg class="fa d-icon d-icon-discourse-expand svg-icon" aria-hidden="true"><use xlink:href="#discourse-expand"></use></svg>
</div></a></div></p>
<p>PS. ‚Äúfoundation‚Äù does not refer to ‚Äònon-profit‚Äô, but to the ground both community and technology stands on.</p>
          <p><a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/2">Read full topic</a></p>
        ]]></description>
        <link>https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/2</link>
        <pubDate>Mon, 03 May 2021 04:59:17 +0000</pubDate>
        <guid isPermaLink="false">socialhub.activitypub.rocks-post-1692-2</guid>
        <source url="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692.rss">Continuation of the meetings waitlist</source>
      </item>
      <item>
        <title>Continuation of the meetings waitlist</title>
        <dc:creator><![CDATA[Sebastian]]></dc:creator>
        <description><![CDATA[
            <p>In the last meetings, the group was able to debate and resolve a number of points, we long wanted to speak about.<br>
The last <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2021-05-01-fediverse-interest-group-meeting/1649/23">meeting</a> was very productive about Capability Negotiation and the Discovery of features ‚Ä¶</p>
<p>However, there are some points remaining and let‚Äôs list them here</p>
<h2>
<a name="alsoknownas-and-link-relations-1" class="anchor" href="#alsoknownas-and-link-relations-1"></a>alsoKnownAs and Link Relations</h2>
<p>Following up on <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/defining-alsoknownas/907/9" class="inline-onebox">Defining alsoKnownAs - #9 by Sebastian</a><br>
<a class="mention" href="/u/rhiaro">@rhiaro</a><br>
but also on the <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2020-12-04-socialcg-meeting/1166/2">adhoc discussion in SocialCG IRC</a> [sorry for the mess]</p>
<hr>
<h2>
<a name="capability-negotiation-2" class="anchor" href="#capability-negotiation-2"></a>Capability Negotiation</h2>
<p>If this would end in an FEP we should speak about some open points from the <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/2021-05-01-fediverse-interest-group-meeting/1649/24">2021-05-01 meeting</a></p>
<hr>
<h2>
<a name="structure-of-w3c-social-cg-and-official-site-3" class="anchor" href="#structure-of-w3c-social-cg-and-official-site-3"></a>Structure of W3C Social CG and official site</h2>
<ul>
<li>guides</li>
<li>site<br>
<a href="https://rigelk.gitlab.io/activitypub.rocks/"><strong>Please see Look and feel</strong></a> by<br>
<a class="mention" href="/u/rigelk">@rigelk</a>
</li>
<li>wiki</li>
<li>OpenCollective</li>
<li>Official fediverse account (some days ago made <a href="https://gup.pe/u/activitypub" class="inline-onebox">web</a> for rC3)</li>
<li>fediverse.space</li>
</ul>
<p><a class="mention" href="/u/how">@how</a> asked ‚ÄúIs there a way to communicate to W3C that promoting decentralization and using Microsoft services are antithetical?‚Äù /me added ‚Äúand using google captcha and putting forms what a computer thinks we do and not giving the community space and getting EFF back in the boat and ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>As far as I know, the 2021-02-20 meeting did not happen, correct me if I‚Äôm wrong, it would be</strong></p>
<h2>
<a name="fediverse-futures-4" class="anchor" href="#fediverse-futures-4"></a>Fediverse Futures</h2>
<blockquote>
<p>AFAIK the Fediverse Futures group has not been followed-up on.</p>
</blockquote>
<hr>
<h1>
<a name="making-hashtag-an-extensionhttpssocialhubactivitypubrocksttopics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to9954-5" class="anchor" href="#making-hashtag-an-extensionhttpssocialhubactivitypubrocksttopics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to9954-5"></a>Making <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/topics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to/995/4">Hashtag an extension</a>
</h1>
<p>as Chris noted for the first November meeting, we should talk about this</p><aside class="quote quote-modified" data-post="4" data-topic="995">
  <div class="title">
    <div class="quote-controls"></div>
    <img alt="" width="20" height="20" src="/user_avatar/socialhub.activitypub.rocks/acka47/40/164_2.png" class="avatar">
    <a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/topics-and-services-we-can-subscribe-to/995/4">"Topics" and Services we can subscribe to</a> <a class="badge-wrapper  box" href="/c/meeting/apconf2020/53"><span class="badge-category-parent-bg" style="background-color: #0E76BD;"></span><span class="badge-category-bg" style="background-color: #ff7a00;"></span><span style="color: #ffffff" data-drop-close="true" class="badge-category clear-badge" title="Add your proposals for the Conf by creating a New Topic ‚Äì
Tag it #bof for Birds of Feather sessions or #hackathon for Hack proposals ‚Ä¶">ActivityPub Conference 2020</span></a>
  </div>
  <blockquote>
    At the end of the bof session I had a question about the type Hashtag and where it comes from. I was curious as we where thinking about adding another type (e.g. Category) to refer to a topic from a controlled vocabulary. 
Taking an <a href="https://octodon.social/@mlemweb/104976859469572967.json" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">example toot</a> one finds the following in the <a href="https://octodon.social/@mlemweb/104976859469572967.json" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">JSON</a>: 
{
   "@context":[
      "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      {
         "ostatus":"http://ostatus.org#",
         "atomUri":"ostatus:atomUri",
         "inReplyToAtomUri":"ostatus:inReplyToAtomUri",
       ‚Ä¶
  </blockquote>
</aside>

<hr>
<h1>
<a name="groups-and-events-6" class="anchor" href="#groups-and-events-6"></a>Groups and Events</h1>
<p>had a lot of efforts and it might be good for new people to hear what the current concensus is</p>
          <p><a href="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/1">Read full topic</a></p>
        ]]></description>
        <link>https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692/1</link>
        <pubDate>Mon, 03 May 2021 03:39:30 +0000</pubDate>
        <guid isPermaLink="false">socialhub.activitypub.rocks-post-1692-1</guid>
        <source url="https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/continuation-of-the-meetings-waitlist/1692.rss">Continuation of the meetings waitlist</source>
      </item>
  </channel>
</rss>
