# Introduction - Chuck Klosterman X
When I started as a reporter in the early nineties, there was an incontrivable firewall between music culture and sports culture, spawned (I suspect) from dark memories various members of the music community still carried from high school. There was this ingrained Reagan-era belief that "jocks" and "meatheads" terrorized "punks" and "goths" and "miscellaneous longhairs," and that the type of alienated teenager who liked art had a condescending view of the type of teenager who liked football. Now, I'm sure some of that social derision was authentic. I'm sure that negative experience did happen to somebody, and it was certainly baked into every teen movie of the era. But nothing like that ever happened to me. I was obsessed with music and I was obsessed with sports, and the synthesis never seemed uncomfortable. I suppose it's possible my hometown was just too small to have stereotypical cliques. It's also possible I was so emotionally engaged with both concepts that I couldn't feel any thing else. Maybe the estrangement went over my head. Maybe I was  just too dumb to care. Still, I knew this conflict existed for other  people, even if I didn't relate to it or understand why. I knew that  people who wrote about music rarely wrote about sports, unless they  weren't especially serious about either. It seemed like you had to  choose one or the other. I went to college in 1990 and started my  career as a sportswriter. One of the first beats assigned to me was collegiate wrestling, a subject I knew nothing about. I didn't even fully understand the scoring system, so I just described every match  like a correspondent for National Geographic. Every single story included the phrase "catlike quickness." My only memory of covering  wrestling is comparing humans to animals.
In 1994, craving the facade of legitimacy (and maybe the potential access to drugs), I switched over to culture journalism. I wanted to generate theories about why the guys in Anthrax wore shorts, and this was the only way. Once I made the switch, I didn't write another sports story for five years. I'm not sure any traditional newspaper editor would have let me—the fact that I was interested in Radiohead

