# The Broom of the System
I hope that there is an afterlife - at least for David Foster Wallace - in which he is allowed to see all of those enjoying his fiction, like me, and those writing about it pleasantly as I do now. If indeed he was caught up at my age - as perhaps I am - in a special vanity about his own wit (which - from what I’ve heard - became achingly self-referential down the line,) I’d like to think the amount of laughing aloud *The Broom of the System* allotted me was appeasing the young ghost, hopefully from at least a relatively neutral place, and not eternal torture. The most magical thing for me about reading somebody dense for the first time, densely is that - if I read in the quiet in long enough spurts - I am able to adopt their voice as my own in every capacity (in my head, mostly - sometimes approximately in writing if I time it right) but a spoken one, and it’s been a *very* long while since I last enjoyed such adoptions as much as I have Mr. Wallace’s. Sometimes, though, the only result of reading the most original work seems to be the methodical crossing off of ideas I once thought were original (and technically were since I didn’t know they weren’t, right?) It has the potential to be perhaps the most enjoyable superpower I could imagine at my age, if I were to nurture it correctly. (I am terribly afraid that returning to college might kill it off altogether.) 

Some people who admittedly have probably never read David Foster Wallace have told me before that I sound like him in my fiction, and there’s this [online tool](https://iwl.me) that admittedly could be completely bullshit which almost always confirms this with the snippets I give it. 


Hey, David. Please teach me to fast with my commas? Really wish you coulda been here to see this one.

