# blimpsburden.docx
David Blue
P.O. Box 1343
Beaverton, OR 97075
(573) 823-4380
davidblue@extratone.com

# BLIMP’S BURDEN
## by
## David Blue

Chapter I
Gruel never yielded anything to a single soul, but most of the condo’s occasional guests – when they’d pay her any mind at all – mistook her resistance for the indifference of morbid obesity, or the pervading detachment from life and reality resulting from prolonged suffering from the same. Barney had loved her in *precisely* the same cheesily-affectionate, telehonian manner with which he did in their kittenhood, uninterrupted for nearly a decade, and thought he knew for certain how she felt about his touch – he assumed that when she fled in a sudden, fluid, ground-covering saunter to her room’s solitude, it was only an unfortunate, but inevitable involuntary reflex to his stocky presence, when in fact his volume failed one hundred percent of his hundreds of attempts to command any whatsoever. In the midst of female and/or unfamiliar company, he’d make a point to bend his bulbous puckering down to search for her eyes with his own, rubbing lightly together the pads of his thumb and index finger as he very deliberately extended the whole of the grubby device toward her snout, as if to point *at* her *with* the foul racket. For her ears, it was sautéed nails in a chamber pot; for her tastes, it was the sound of death.
In actuality, she had never once experienced even a wee grain of fear of the imbecile. As it happens, no living being – thinking and not – ever had or ever would, for the extent of his existence. If Gruel had been bestowed with the most boundless, ever-giving gift of complex linguistics, she wouldn’t have batted an eye before loudly protesting her sentiments about his life, his noise, and his rank-ass hands as they approached her, sitting static in her green bowelled-out faux leather recliner, attempting to murder him with her eyes. Unfortunately, gray Tabbies are quite unlucky – or perhaps just out of all favor in the eyes of Chance, because they are the least equipped mammals by far when it comes to domestic dialog, though Gruel had learned to tolerate her companion’s pervasively meek nature. She was allowed to languish about for the last few years of her life, eating just a bit more than she should every day, warming herself in the windowsills by the crisp mountain sun – on especially frisky occasions, even explicitly expressing her disgust by knocking one or two of Barney’s collectible anime figurines off their wall shelf and onto the creaky, disused air hockey table in the corner. It’s fairly widely-accepted in the scientific community that she, being feline, 1) could not possibly understand her own mortality in any substantial way, 2) cannot maintain the concept of *the future*, and 3) was extremely metacognitively limited, generally – without the ability to self-reflect. And yet, Gruel’s day-to-day demeanor – were you able to translate the thoughts occupying the space between her two (especially soft) ears into an English internal dialogue – was full of easily recognizable human utterances. “I wish you were dead,” in response to Barney’s more especially foul habits (like the horrendous rubbing.) “Though I am *actually* going to die before you, you know. I see you there, poking your grotesque digits at me, cooing your fucking jowls, and it makes me sick,” she’d continue. “If we truly *are* creations of the omniscient judeochristian God, and he chose to keep you, he is no ‘sadist,’ but a nano-brained sky idiot intent on utterly wasting his limitless time.”
If domesticated pet conventions were a bit different, and the course of evolutionary feline anatomy altered – if Gruel *were* able to verbalize and audibalize these sentiments to Barney from the first moment they came to be together, there’s no telling which of them would still be alive, or if he’d have turned out a bit sharper. At thirty-five, Mr. Blimp was single, white, and *frumpy*. He’d moved them in to their drab suburban Colorado Springs condominium on his new boss’s abrasive recommendation after landing the Systems Administrator position at MapQuest in nearby Denver – a continually less-relevant navigation service and mobile application. For Barney, achieving a real *tech industry job* to which he could show up in pajamas and drink cheap beer had been a point of substantial pride, though the most he’d ever mustered would be considered minimal by any self-respecting individual. It was his privilege to watch over *The Server Room*, with its gray, winking racks, and arid, coppertone heat – where the data of millions of users was stored and exchanged securely. Granted, most of them were elderly – those few not quite old enough to stop driving (according to them, not their children,) but not fresh enough to detach themselves entirely from physically printed digital directions. The gap was narrowing by the week, but Barney didn’t mind much – it kept his job consistently low-stress, sparing him daily energy he’d need in the after-five dash home to log in and take over for his Mountain Time afternoon shift, watching over the virtual skies through a simulated radar scope on the Virtual Air Traffic Simulation network (VATSIM).
From around the world, commercial pilots-in-training would log in using complex home built addons to form a cohesive virtual world – the dullest Massively Multiplayer Online Game ever spawned – in which they’d simulate every monotonous detail involved in captaining a passenger flight – the flight plan, the kneeboard checklist, and – if the locale was chosen correctly, where a supervisor was present – the communication with air traffic control, including clearance requests, readbacks, handoffs, and approvals – *every one* of the most irritating bureaucracies involved in contemporary flight. Even the longest-aging simulator titles could be Frankensteined to subject a user with realtime-updated weather, delays, traffic redirection, etc, necessitating a student to use all of the real-world weather monitoring services as they’d be required – as well as the judgments which would depend on the data – throughout the rest of their long, hateful, empty careers. After they’d earned their certifications to fly real aircraft, the vast majority would be glad to leave VATSIM behind forever. (Not even jet pilots want to digitally recreate the tedium of their day job during off hours.) However, a select few *ultra*-dorky aviation nerds like Blimp participated for no reason at all (except for an especially quaint masochism,) spending thousands of their living hours engaged in absurdly-realistic simulations of one of two notoriously high-stress jobs – Captain or air traffic controller – without any expectation of compensation. It is in these extremist communities that you’ll find *the* most rule-following, law-abiding, legislation-jerking twerps in existence today. General Aviation Dads are the grunts – the muscle of petty, aggravating adherence to their everpresent FARAIM manuals – a glossy, ten-pound, yearly-updated collection of *every single* regulation enforced by the Federal Aviation Administration – but most have legitimate careers, wives, and moderately healthy children. *Hardcore Simmers*, however, are an inexplicably dedicated bunch – bile of the least-socialized sort – not for the sake of competition, fun, or even mastery. When asked, Blimp spoke of his dedication as if it was some sort of (unsolicited,) diehard *duty*-bound slavery – he was *needed* by the community. In the context of their continued function, it was true – he *was* Ultimate Air Boss of the Denver Area Digital ARTCC – but his sudden, permanent, unannounced absence would debatably result in little more than a minor inconvenience; a few broken, too-Germanic hearts.
Regardless of the reality of his role, Barney *needed to be needed*, as one says. Over the course of his half-decade participation in the organization, he had somehow amassed over 20,000 online forum posts, communicating with the membership – which maintained a populace of fifty or so – and logged some 4,500 hours as a virtual air traffic controller. He’d flown a little high-winged Cessna as an adolescent – an hour-long “introductory flight” with an instructor had been his mother’s gift for his fifteenth birthday – and had savored every one of the handful of opportunities his working life allowed him to fly commercially, an elderly laptop balanced on his knees and a massive headset strapped to his skull, streaming & scrutinizing every monotonous exchange between the relevant parties of his flight. Friends and co-workers tended to catch on to the *Blimpisms* quickly – and knew they necessitated regardation as *charming sensibilities* – or they would be unsuccessful in forming or maintaining any sort of relationship with the man – he zealously held his obsessions in indefatigable First Priority, which was undeniably the only respectable thing about him, for the man was disgustingly unconcerned with hygiene or appearance in a convoluted sense of prideful apathy.
In his sphere, it was pitifully boastful to declare oneself exempt oneself from the petty routines of the *normal*-minded petty drivels of Health & Home.

